doc: add document for dashboard (#24)
chaos-mesh/website: docs/user_guides/dashboard.md

---

> id: Dashboard

Reviewer: `Dashboard` => `dashboard`.

title: Dashboard
---

> Chaos Dashboard is a Web UI for managing, designing, monitoring Chaos Experiments. Stay tuned for more supports or join us in making it happen.

Reviewer 2: This is a user doc, not a blog article - so no call to action.

## Install Dashboard

You can install Chaos Mesh with dashboard by executing the command below:

```bash
helm install chaos-mesh chaos-mesh/chaos-mesh --namespace=chaos-testing --set dashboard.create=true
```

If you have already installed Chaos Mesh, upgrade it by executing:

```bash
helm upgrade chaos-mesh chaos-mesh/chaos-mesh --namespace=chaos-testing --set dashboard.create=true
```

> ### Security Mode

Author: update to `Enable/Disable security mode`

> Dashboard supports the `security mode`, which required to login with a token. The token is generated by Kubernetes, and the user can only perform things within the scope of the token authority on the Dashboard.

Author: it means `the token's corresponding authority`

> Dashboard supports the `security mode`, which required to login with a token. The token is generated by Kubernetes, and the user can only perform things within the scope of the token authority on the Dashboard.

Reviewer 2: where do you define the corresponding authority?

> Dashboard supports the `security mode`, which required to login with a token. The token is generated by Kubernetes, and the user can only perform things within the scope of the token authority on the Dashboard.

Author: 1. it's the `role`, define the authority
2. then create a `service-account`, bind it with a `role`
3. get the token of the `service-account`

> Dashboard supports the `security mode`, which required to login with a token. The token is generated by Kubernetes, and the user can only perform things within the scope of the token authority on the Dashboard.

Reviewer 2: I updated the text.

Security mode is enabled by default when installing with Helm. You can disable it by executing:

```bash
helm upgrade chaos-mesh chaos-mesh/chaos-mesh --namespace=chaos-testing --set dashboard.securityMode=false
```

**Note:**
>
> 1. The security mode can be turned off only in test scenarios, and it is strongly recommended to turn it on in other cases.

> > 2. The security mode is disabled if you install Chaos Mesh by `install.sh`, which is suitable for trying Chaos Mesh out.

Author: Non-test scenarios

## Access Dashboard

A typical way to access it is to use `kubectl port-forward`:

```bash
kubectl port-forward -n chaos-testing svc/chaos-dashboard 2333:2333
```

Then you can access [`http://localhost:2333`](http://localhost:2333) in the browser.

## Use Dashboard

### Login

> If the Dashboard is installed with security mode, you need to fill in `Name` and `Token` when you open Dashboard in the browser. Otherwise, you can skip this section.

Author: Only when using helm to install Chaos Mesh, the security mode is enabled by default. When use install.sh, the security mode is disabled

> If the Dashboard is installed with security mode, you need to fill in `Name` and `Token` when you open Dashboard in the browser. Otherwise, you can skip this section.

Reviewer 2: Please modify it directly

> If the Dashboard is installed with security mode, you need to fill in `Name` and `Token` when you open Dashboard in the browser. Otherwise, you can skip this section.

Author: update in 4a1533d

The token is generated by Kubernetes, this section will introduce how to generate the token.

#### Create User

> 

Author: done

    The sample configuration file is as follows:

    ```yaml
    kind: Role
    apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
    metadata:
      namespace: namespace-test
      name: role-test-manager
    rules:
    - apiGroups: [""]
      resources: ["pods", "namespaces"]
      verbs: ["get", "watch", "list"]
    - apiGroups:
      - chaos-mesh.org
      resources: [ "*" ]
      verbs:
      - create
      - delete
      - get
      - list
      - patch
      - update
      - watch
    ```

- Namespace Viewer

    This role has access to the chaos experiment under a specified namespace in the Kubernetes cluster.

    The sample configuration file is as follows:

    ```yaml
    kind: Role
    apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
    metadata:
      namespace: namespace-test
      name: role-test-reader
    rules:
    - apiGroups: [""]
      resources: ["pods", "namespaces"]
      verbs: ["get", "watch", "list"]
    - apiGroups:
      - chaos-mesh.org
      resources: [ "*" ]
      verbs:
      - get
      - list
      - watch
    ```

> Then create `ServiceAccount`, and bind the `ServiceAccount` with `Role`. Refer to [RBAC](https://kubernetes.io/zh/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/) for more details.

Author: don't found `1`

> Then create `ServiceAccount`, and bind the `ServiceAccount` with `Role`. Refer to [RBAC](https://kubernetes.io/zh/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/) for more details.

Author: oh, get it

#### Get the Token

> Get the token of `ServiceAccount` created above, refer to [getting-a-bearer-token](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard/blob/master/docs/user/access-control/creating-sample-user.md#getting-a-bearer-token) for more details.

Author: I add an example command

#### Login With Name and Token

>  The `Name` can be any string used to identify the `Token`, and a meaningful `Name` is suggested, such as `Cluster-Manager`, to indicate that the `Token` has permissions managed chaos experiments in the cluster.

Author: it is the name of the token, users can name it as will

>  The `Name` can be any string used to identify the `Token`, and a meaningful `Name` is suggested, such as `Cluster-Manager`, to indicate that the `Token` has permissions managed chaos experiments in the cluster.

Reviewer 2: This would be confusing - you refer it as "The Name" but it has not been introduced earlier. Maybe you could say something like: 

Now you have the token generated, you need to identify it with a `Name`. A meaningful name is suggested, for example, `Cluster-Manager`, to indicate that the `Token` has permissions managed chaos experiments in the cluster.

>  The `Name` can be any string used to identify the `Token`, and a meaningful `Name` is suggested, such as `Cluster-Manager`, to indicate that the `Token` has permissions managed chaos experiments in the cluster.

Author: update in 4a1533d

![dashboard-login](/img/dashboard-login.png)

### Create Chaos Experiment

> Click the button `NEW EXPERIMENT` to create a new chaos experiment:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a chaos experiment on Chaos Dashboard:

1. Click the **NEW EXPERIMENT** button to create a new chaos experiment:
```

Reviewer 2: Button names should be bold.

![dashboard-new-experiment](/img/dashboard-new-experiment.png)

> Then you need to configure the chaos experiment, including the experiment name, type, scheduling information, etc:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Configure the chaos experiment, including the experiment name, type, scheduling information, etc.
```

![dashboard-chaos-config](/img/dashboard-chaos-config.png)

> ### Manage Chaos Experiment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Manage a chaos experiment
```

> Click the button `Experiments` to view all the chaos experiments:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To manage a specific chaos experiment:

 1. Click the **Experiments** button to view all the chaos experiments.
```

![dashboard-experiments](/img/dashboard-experiments.png)

> You can choose an experiment to view the details, and pause, archive, or update the chaos experiment on the page:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Choose the target experiment to view the details, pause, archive, or update.
```

---
id: dashboard
title: Dashboard
---

Chaos Dashboard is a one-stop web UI for managing, designing, and monitoring chaos experiments on Chaos Mesh. This document provides a step-by-step introduction on how to use Chaos Dashboard.

## Install Chaos Dashboard

You can install Chaos Mesh with Chaos Dashboard by executing the command below:

```bash
helm install chaos-mesh chaos-mesh/chaos-mesh --namespace=chaos-testing --set dashboard.create=true
```

If you have already installed Chaos Mesh, upgrade it by executing:

```bash
helm upgrade chaos-mesh chaos-mesh/chaos-mesh --namespace=chaos-testing --set dashboard.create=true
```

## Enable/Disable security mode

Dashboard supports the `security mode`, which required to login with a token. The token is generated by Kubernetes, and the user can only perform things within the scope of the token authority on the Dashboard.

The security mode is enabled by default if you install via Helm. You can disable it by executing:

```bash
helm upgrade chaos-mesh chaos-mesh/chaos-mesh --namespace=chaos-testing --set dashboard.securityMode=false
```

**Note:**
>

> > 1. The security mode can be turned off only in test scenarios, and it is strongly recommended to turn it on in other cases.
> > 2. The security mode is disabled if you install Chaos Mesh by `install.sh`, which is suitable for trying Chaos Mesh out.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> 1. For actual testing scenarios, we strongly recommend that you enable the security mode.
> 2. The security mode is disabled if you install Chaos Mesh by `install.sh`, which is suitable for trying Chaos Mesh out.
```

      - update
      - watch
    ```

- Namespace Viewer

    This role has access to the chaos experiment under a specified namespace in the Kubernetes cluster.

    Sample configuration file:

    ```yaml
    kind: Role
    apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
    metadata:
      namespace: namespace-test
      name: role-test-reader
    rules:
    - apiGroups: [""]
      resources: ["pods", "namespaces"]
      verbs: ["get", "watch", "list"]
    - apiGroups:
      - chaos-mesh.org
      resources: [ "*" ]
      verbs:
      - get
      - list
      - watch
    ```

2. Create a `ServiceAccount`, and bind it with a specific `Role`. Refer to [RBAC](https://kubernetes.io/zh/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/) for more details.

### Get the token

The token is generated by Kubernetes. To get a token for the `ServiceAccount` created above, run command below:

```bash
kubectl -n ${namespace} describe secret $(kubectl -n ${namespace} get secret | grep ${service-account-name} | awk '{print $1}')
```

Refer to [getting-a-bearer-token](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard/blob/master/docs/user/access-control/creating-sample-user.md#getting-a-bearer-token) for more details.

> ### Sign in

Reviewer 2: Is this the step to sign in? But I see in the description you just name the token. There is no sign in operation indicated.

Author: Yes, there is a picture below, it shows the sign in  InputBox

Reviewer 2: I think we'd better indicate also in the description.

Author: add a description in b5aac41

---
id: dashboard

> title: Dashboard

Reviewer 2: Where would you put this document?

Author: under `User Guides`

## Install Chaos Dashboard

You can install Chaos Mesh with Chaos Dashboard by executing the command below:

```bash
helm install chaos-mesh chaos-mesh/chaos-mesh --namespace=chaos-testing --set dashboard.create=true
```

If you have already installed Chaos Mesh, upgrade it by executing:

```bash
helm upgrade chaos-mesh chaos-mesh/chaos-mesh --namespace=chaos-testing --set dashboard.create=true
```

## Enable/Disable security mode

Chaos Dashboard supports a security mode, which requires users to login with a token generated by Kubernetes. Each token is linked to a `service account`. You can only perform operations within the scope as allowed by the role that is associated with the service account.

The security mode is enabled by default if you install via Helm. You can disable it by executing:

```bash
helm upgrade chaos-mesh chaos-mesh/chaos-mesh --namespace=chaos-testing --set dashboard.securityMode=false
```

**Note:**
>
> 1. For actual testing scenarios, we strongly recommend that you enable the security mode.

> > 2. The security mode is disabled if you install Chaos Mesh by `install.sh`, which is suitable for trying Chaos Mesh out.

Reviewer 2: These should be bullet items

## Access Chaos Dashboard

A typical way to access Chaos Dashboard is to use `kubectl port-forward`:

```bash
kubectl port-forward -n chaos-testing svc/chaos-dashboard 2333:2333
```

Now you should be able to access [`http://localhost:2333`](http://localhost:2333) in the browser.

## Log In

By default, the security mode is enabled when using helm to install Chaos Mesh, and you will need to log in Chaos Dashboard with an account `Name` and `Token`. This section introduces how to create the account and the token. You can skip this step if you have disabled the security mode.

### Create the account

Chaos Dashboard supports Role-Based Access Control (RBAC). To create the account:

1. Create the `Role`. Here are sample role configurations that you can choose from and edit to meet your specific requirement.

> - Cluster Manager

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Cluster Manager
```
Please adjust the indent. It should not be at the same level as the sentence above.

Author: all the four roles are update

      - watch
    ```

  - Namespace Viewer

    This role has access to the chaos experiment under a specified namespace in the Kubernetes cluster.

    Sample configuration file:

    ```yaml
    kind: Role
    apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
    metadata:
      namespace: namespace-test
      name: role-test-reader
    rules:
    - apiGroups: [""]
      resources: ["pods", "namespaces"]
      verbs: ["get", "watch", "list"]
    - apiGroups:
      - chaos-mesh.org
      resources: [ "*" ]
      verbs:
      - get
      - list
      - watch
    ```

2. Create a `ServiceAccount`, and bind it with a specific `Role`. Refer to [RBAC](https://kubernetes.io/zh/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/) for more details.

### Get the token

The token is generated by Kubernetes. To get a token for the `ServiceAccount` created above, run command below:

```bash
kubectl -n ${namespace} describe secret $(kubectl -n ${namespace} get secret | grep ${service-account-name} | awk '{print $1}')
```

Refer to [getting-a-bearer-token](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard/blob/master/docs/user/access-control/creating-sample-user.md#getting-a-bearer-token) for more details.

### Sign in

> Now you have the token generated, you need to identify it with a `Name`. A meaningful name is suggested, for example, `Cluster-Manager`, to indicate that the token has permissions managed chaos experiments in the cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the token generated, you need to identify it with a `Name`. A meaningful name is recommended, for example, `Cluster-Manager`, to indicate that the token has permissions managed chaos experiments in the cluster.
```
